All right, so let's start this video with an
example demonstrating a single
parameter lambda expression.
So, we're still going to be in our
Lambda Expressions project.
We need to create a new task called Calculator.
(typing)
All right, so this code as you can see
consists of a single class called Calculator.
So, it's got an interface UnaryIntegerOperation
with a single abstract method on it.
Now, this type of interface is called a
functional interface, it facilitates
the use of lambda expressions.
And you can see there from the comments
on line 12 our function interface
is an interface with one
and only one abstract method.
So then you go further down we've got this
calculate method, defined on line 21,
that accepts an int value and an object
that implements the UnaryIntegerOperation
interface we've defined above.
And then we've got our main method.
We're creating three lambda expressions
and sorting them to UnaryIntegerOperation variables.
And you see we're creating a new instance of Calculator
on line 27, and there's our three samples of creating
those variables, those lambda expressions.
And you can see the first one on line 34
that's demonstrating a single typed parameter
in parenthesis, note here that if you specify
type you must use parenthesis.
So this operation will result in the value
being squared as you can see in the expression.
Then we've got the lambda expression on line 39
demonstrating a single un-typed parameter
in parenthesis, and this operation will
result in the value being cubed as you
can see with the expression.
Then on line 44, that lambda expression
demonstrates a single un-typed parameter without
using parenthesis, and that operation will result
in the value being incremented by one.
And then we're executing that code,
those lambda expressions, from line 47 onwards,
basically executing each of the three Calculate methods.
All right, so if we run this now,
you can see that we've got the output
at the bottom of the screen, squared, cubed and incremented.
So that's pretty neat, but how did it work?
Well we go back and look at our lambda expressions.
Basically the compiler took the
right hand side of the lambda expression
and built a concrete method designed
using the interface method Calculate
and then take in parenthesis, then populate
it with code to right of the arrow token.
The name of the method is actually unnecessary
to the compiler, but you should note that it is the
interface's method that is the template
for the on-the-fly method creation and execution.
We should also note that the
interface's method returns an int.
We'll just go back and look at our interface
while we're talking about it.
You can see it's returning an int there
but we didn't specify a return in our lambda expressions.
It's actually unnecessary and in fact invalid
to use the word return in a single statement expression
as I talked about in the previous video and slides.
The compiler will do the extra work
to properly return a value if
the defined method requires it.
All right, so there's one more lambda expression.
So I'm going to paste that in below
the definition of the third one.
Paste it down here.
All right, so there's the code.
Now, in this expression, we're using curly
braces to wrap the expression body.
So there's two things specifically to note here.
First, here we're using a return statement.
And secondly, statements in the left and right
curly braces but the block requires semicolons.
The single statement expressions
as you can see above did not actually require them.
But actually in talking about those first three
lambda expressions, the declaration itself
required the semicolon at the end of the line
but not actually the statements themselves.
And again, this example on line 50 is demonstrating
a single un-typed parameter,
and that body is wrapped in the right curly braces.
I've got brackets in the comments but
some people refer to curly braces as brackets
but I like to use curly braces as the terminology there.
Again, the point is we're using a return statement
and that's how to go about it.
So, let's actually see that working.
So I'm going to add some output in our execution down here.
So let's execute that fourth lambda expression.
And let's run it.
And you see we got the output
the number two decremented equals one.
Now just to confirm that return is required,
let's go back up there
and let's remove the word return.
And one thing I want to point out there is
that you can see the intelligized helpfully
telling you that statement lambda can
be replaced with the expression lambda.
So if I actually did that you can see it's
turned it into one line
but we don't want to do that because we're demonstrating
the use of using and ability to have modelling statement.
It's basically a single, at the moment
a single un-typed parameter that is in parenthesis.
But again, if we try to remove the word return there,
there's something called an error indicating
that a minus one is not a statement.
When you use the left and right curly braces
you're required to use the return statement
if your functional interface method returns a value.
And you can see that our interface on line 15
has defined this return an int.
I'm just going to go down now,
I'm just going to undo that change.
All right, so let's finish the video here.
In the next one we'll start looking at
multiple parameters in multiple expressions.
See you in the next video.